In this video we’ll dig deep into understanding
Observables.
Observables are part of the reactive extensions
library also known as RxJS and are used extensively
in Angular 2.
You can learn all about reactiveX here at
reactivex.io.
The purpose of reactiveX is to provide an
API for asynchronous programming with observable
streams.
So what does that mean exactly?
It means that observables provide us with
an asynchronous stream of data we can subscribe
to.
So that when new data has been emitted we
can automatically receive the new data coming
in.
You can think of this as receiving the changes
in stock prices.
Since the price of stocks is constantly fluctuating,
an observable could be used to update these
prices as they come in.
Observables work like an array, so we’ll
be using the map operator in order to process
the response.
To better understand this lets go over to
reactivex.io then click ‘choose your platform’
then javascript.
We get taken to the github page.
If we scroll down a bit we see an example.
This is very similar to what our service will
look like.
So this source is going to be to the response
we get back, like a JSON file for example.
We can filter the response to match a selected
criteria.
Then we need to call map on the response in
order to shape the data.
Once the data is shaped, it gets passed to
a subscriber.
This subscriber is going to be located inside
our component and will be used to display
the data in our view and process any errors.
So how is an observable different from a promise?
Observables work with multiple values over
time.
Whereas promises return only a single value.
Observables are cancellable, promises are
not cancellable.
Observables can be manipulated using javascript
functions like map, filter and reduce.
Now that we have a better understanding of
what Observables are, lets discuss working
with Http requests.